Mining activity was and is always connected with the occurrence of dangers which are commonly called
mining hazards. A special case of such threat is a seismic hazard which frequently occurs in many
underground mines. Seismic hazard is the hardest detectable and predictable of natural hazards and in
this respect it is comparable to an earthquake. More and more advanced seismic and seismoacoustic
monitoring systems allow a better understanding rock mass processes and definition of seismic hazard
prediction methods. Accuracy of so far created methods is however far from perfect. Complexity of
seismic processes and big disproportion between the number of low-energy seismic events and the number
of high-energy phenomena (e.g. > 10^4J) causes the statistical techniques to be insufficient to predict
seismic hazard. Therefore, it is essential to search for new opportunities of better hazard prediction,
also using machine learning methods.


In the majority of applications, the
results obtained by mentioned methods are reported in the form of two states which are interpreted as
'hazardous' and 'non-hazardous'. Unbalanced distribution of positive ('hazardous state') and negative
('non-hazardous state') examples is a serious problem in seismic hazard prediction.


The task of seismic prediction can be defined in different ways, but the main
aim of all seismic hazard assessment methods is to predict (with given precision relating to time and
date) of increased seismic activity which can cause a rockburst. In the data set each row contains a
summary statement about seismic activity in the rock mass within one shift (8 hours). If decision
attribute has the value 1, then in the next shift any seismic bump with an energy higher than 10^4 J was
registered. That task of hazards prediction bases on the relationship between the energy of recorded
tremors and seismoacoustic activity with the possibility of rockburst occurrence. Hence, such hazard
prognosis is not connected with accurate rockburst prediction. Moreover, with the information about the
possibility of hazardous situation occurrence, an appropriate supervision service can reduce a risk of
rockburst (e.g. by distressing shooting) or withdraw workers from the threatened area. Good prediction
of increased seismic activity is therefore a matter of great practical importance. The presented data
set is characterized by unbalanced distribution of positive and negative examples. In the data set there
are only 170 positive examples representing class 1.
